# Understanding `[[...slug]].tsx`

## Background

The file `src/pages/[[...slug]].tsx` is the entry point of static-page generation for all pages built from the CMS. It has its foundation in the [Pages Router in Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts). In short, when a file exists in the `pages` directory, it's automatically processed during a static build. Let's dive in deeper to see what exactly that means.

### Wait, but we have a lot of pages we want to build - not just one

That's right. The CMS contains thousands of pages that need to be built by this Next.js project. This `[[...slug]].tsx` file is responsible for building all of them. The keys to making this possible are the brackets and the ellipsis. These are components of a _dynamic_ route. We'll explain those details in a bit, but let's first step back and take a look more generally at how the Pages Router works.

## Pages Router: A Simple Example

Next.js is set up to handle a variety of different build scenarios. In a very simple approach, we might have a site whose pages are entirely pre-determined and constant. Let's consider a site with three pages:

- Homepage
- About Us
- Contact Us

In this case, our `pages` directory might look like this:

```
|__pages
  |__index.tsx
  |__about.tsx
  |__contact.tsx
```

When `next build` (`yarn build`) is executed, Next.js steps through each of these files in the `pages` directory and builds the HTML for the page at its respective path (more on this process later):

- `index.tsx` => `/`
- `about.tsx` => `/about`
- `contact.tsx` => `/contact`

## The problem

But this isn't the reality of our use case. Our pages are not pre-determined. Rather, our pages are determined by content that can be added/edited/removed by editors in our CMS, which means that _our_ build process needs to first become aware of the paths that it needs to build.

## Pages Router: Our Dynamic Approach

Enter dynamic routes. In our case, we use a single dynamic route as a catch-all for generating all the pages. In the case of dynamic routes, the Pages Router in Next.js requires the implementation of a function `getStaticPaths`, which is called during a static-site build to calculate all the paths for all the pages that need to be built by the template in question. Here's what happens during our build with regard to path generation:

1. When a static build is initiated, Next.js (as we saw previously) steps through each of the files in the `pages` directory. In this case, notably, it comes upon `[[..slug]].tsx`.

2. In that file, Next.js finds and calls the `getStaticPaths` function.

3. Inside that function, we ping the CMS for all the content it knows about for _each_ of the content types that we want to build.

4. The entities found for each content type are handled slightly differently. Here are some examples:

   - Most News Story paths map directly to a single path.
   - Lovell Federal News Story paths need to be converted to two paths, one for VA and one for TRICARE (see: [`READMEs/lovell.md`](./lovell.md))
   - Story Listing pages need to have an additional path generated for each subsequent page that needs to be statically built (see: [`READMEs/pagination.md`](./pagination.md))

5. Once all paths are determined for each content type, they are merged together into one large collection. We now have a collection of all the paths that need to be built.

### So what are the brackets and the ellipsis?

Good question! It seems like we could name this file whatever we want. And that would work just fine if Next.js were _only_ a static-site generator. But it's not. It's also an application server for both prod and dev environments. Consider this:

When we are developing features, rarely would we want to wait for an entire build to finish to see our changes. That would be a painfully slow development process. Instead, by running `next dev` (`yarn dev`) we can run a development server to build individual pages on demand. But, in order to make this possible, Next.js needs to know which page template to execute. This is where the file naming comes into play.

Let's return to our simple routing example of a site with three pre-determined pages. When building this site, let's say we want to work on the `/about` page. So, we run `yarn dev` and then visit `localhost:3999/about`. When the Next.js development server receives the request for this page, the first thing it will look for is a file in the `pages` directory named `about.tsx`. Since we have one, Next.js will use that file to build the page.

But let's say we _didn't_ have that file. Or, in other words, let's consider _our_ case. Let's say we are working on developing our News Story template. We know that one News Story path is `/minneapolis-health-care/stories/contributing-to-the-future-of-mental-health`. So, again, we run `yarn dev` and then visit `localhost:3999/minneapolis-health-care/stories/contributing-to-the-future-of-mental-health`. Now, the Next.js development server will look inside the `pages` directory for a path corresponding to the url. In this case, it'd first look for a directory named `minneapolis-health-care`, then inside that a directory named `stories` and then a file named `contributing-to-the-future-of-mental-health.tsx`. Of course, we do not have that, so it won't find it. So, then, it starts looking for other "matches". And, as it turns out, it can find "matches" based on wildcards:

- The use of single brackets (e.g. `[slug].tsx`) enables the matching of the current segment. So this would match `localhost:3999/page-1` or `localhost:3999/page-2`. Importantly, it would _not_ match `/minneapolis-health-care/stories/contributing-to-the-future-of-mental-health`.
- The use of an ellipsis (e.g. `[...slug].tsx`) enables the match to be a catch-all match. So, this would match `localhost:3999/page-1` OR `localhost:3999/path/to/page-1`. This _would_ also match `/minneapolis-health-care/stories/contributing-to-the-future-of-mental-health`. Actually, it would match every path _except one_.
- The path we wouldn't match is `localhost:3999` (the homepage). In order to accommodate that, we use double brackets with ellipsis (e.g. `[[...slug]].tsx`), which enables the catch-all segment to be _optional_.

### Considerations

It's useful to point out that we could, conceivably, have multiple page files rather than a single `[[...slug]].tsx` file. For example, a site like ours that builds from CMS content might have this structure in its `pages` directory:

```
|__pages
  |__stories
    |__[[...slug]].tsx
  |__events
    |__[[...slug]].tsx
```

Then, we could implement `pages/stories/[[...slug]].tsx` to handle the building of News Story pages, and `pages/events/[[...slug]].tsx` to handle the building of Event pages.

But, importantly, this approach would require that News Story and Event paths all have the wildcard portion at the _end_ of the path (e.g. `/stories/some-story-title` or `/stories/path/to/some-story-title`). In our setup, this is not the case. We have `/[VAMC system name]/stories/[story-title]`, and this structure requires our current approach rather than this alternative.

## The whole picture

We've seen that our use case involves content of many different types that is constantly changing, and we've seen that we accommodate that use case by implementing a single entry point to handle the building of all pages. But we've mostly only discussed how that single entry point can handle different paths, either generating the full collection of paths or intelligently knowing what to make of one specific path. There's still a critical piece of the puzzle that we haven't really discussed: How do we actually _build_ different types of pages?

Let's discuss that full process. There are three main steps:

1. **Path/URL**

   The first step is effectively what we've discussed above. Much of the discussion up to this point has centered on handling all of the possible paths/URLs where our content will be made available. We discussed this in two different contexts:

   - Static-site generation
     - When we run a full build/export, we need to generate a list of all the paths that need to be built. This process is the job of `getStaticPaths`. In this case, the next two steps are then executed on _all_ of the paths returned by `getStaticPaths`.
   - Development server
     - When we are running a development server, we visit a specific page at a specifc path/URL. Then, the next two steps are executed on that single path.

2. **Convert the path into data.**

   Whether we're dealing with a single path or a group of paths, the critical piece of the puzzle is making sense of the content an individual path represents. This is where `getStaticProps` enters the picture.

   The function `getStaticProps` in our `[[...slug]].tsx` file is called on each path that needs to be processed by the file in question (in the case of static-site generation, all paths returned by the `getStaticPaths` function in this file; in the case of Next.js running as a development server and handling a single request, the path from that request, which would be mapped to this file by the "matching" discussed above). The role of `getStaticProps` is to return the data for an entity represented by the path in question. Its name includes `props` because the data it fetches will become the `props` sent to the template (see step 3 below).

   So, what happens in the `getStaticProps` function in our `[[...slug]].tsx` file? There are a few important pieces:

   - First, we ping the CMS for more information about the entity represented by the path in question. Since the CMS knows the path for a given entity, it can look up the entity based on the path and provide us important information about the entity.
   - Most importantly, it can tell us what _type_ of entity it represents. Since our single page file is handling the processing for all pages, we need to be able to differentiate between the different types of content we might encounter.
   - Once we know the type of content we are dealing with, we can apply any necessary business logic to that content. Here are some examples:
     - Lovell VA and TRICARE Story Listing pages need to have the Lovell Federal stories merged in. Let's consider the processing of `lovell-federal-health-care-va/stories`. When that path is encountered, we ping the CMS for the data tied to that path. The CMS gives us back the Story Listing page along with all stories tied to that listing. But our business rules for Lovell (see: [`READMEs/lovell.md`](./lovell.md)) dictate that we _also_ need the stories tied to the Federal listing. This business logic is handled before returning data from `getStaticProps`.
     - Lovell bifurcated pages need to be adjusted for the particular variant. Let's consider the processing of a Lovell News Story that is assigned to the Federal level in the CMS. In this case, the CMS will acknowledge _two_ paths, one for the VA side and one for the TRICARE side. Previously, `getStaticPaths` would have generated both of these paths in its list of paths that need to be built, and each of them would be passed to `getStaticProps`. In both cases, fetching the data from the CMS would return the same content. But, for the VA version, we want to add a switch link that points to the TRICARE version, and, for the TRICARE version, we want to add a switch link that points to the VA version. All of this business logic is handled before returning data from `getStaticProps`.

3. **Convert the data into HTML.**

   Once we know the type of the entity and have run all necessary business logic on it, we then need to pass the updated data object to the appropriate template so it can ultimately be rendered as HTML. We see this logic at the top of the `[[...slug]].tsx` file in the default export (Next.js dictates that top-level page templates inside the `pages` directory define their template/component via the default export in the file). Here, we conditionally render a component based on the entity type:

   ```
      <main>
        <div id="content" className="interior">
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.STORY_LISTING && (
            <StoryListing {...(resource as FormattedStoryListing)} />
          )}
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.STORY && (
            <NewsStory {...(resource as FormattedNewsStory)} />
          )}
          {/* {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.QA && (
            <QuestionAnswer {...resource} />
          )} */}
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.EVENT_LISTING && (
            <EventListing {...(resource as FormattedEventListing)} />
          )}
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.EVENT && (
            <Event {...(resource as FormattedEvent)} />
          )}
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.RESOURCES_SUPPORT && (
            <ResourcesSupport {...(resource as FormattedResourcesSupport)} />
          )}
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.VET_CENTER && (
            <VetCenter {...(resource as FormattedVetCenter)} />
          )}
          {resource.type === RESOURCE_TYPES.VET_CENTER && (
            <VaPolice {...(resource as FormattedVAPolice)} />
          )}

        </div>
      </main>

   ```

And that is basically it! `[[...slug]].tsx` isn't magic, but it is **the entry point to the entire process, and it's a critical piece to understanding the architecture of this project**.
