READMEs/testing.md, before:

# Testing

This document outlines expectations for contributors to this project with regard to testing.

1. **All nontrivial pieces of code should have have unit tests.** (And if the code is trivial, perhaps it needs to be rethought.)

1. **Tests should be written in Jest and use the existing tooling wherever possible.** Please discuss any new dev dependencies with at least one other member of the team before adding them to the project.

1. **Tests should always cover the "Happy Path" or paths in their entirety.** A reasonable number of failure paths, appropriate to the likelihood and severity of errors, should be anticipated as well; silent failures cause very real issues with static site generation.

1. **PRs should aim for 100% coverage of lines, branches, and expressions.** PRs should lower test coverage metrics only in exceptional circumstances. Test coverage requirements are set to a couple percent below the current metrics; these should increase briskly over time.

1. **Unit tests should incorporate accessibility testing whenever appropriate.** Whenever a component is rendered, check it. If there is a rerender, check it again! The `axe` tool is made available in our internal `test-utils` module:

```javascript
import { axe, render, waitFor } from 'test-utils'

test('correctly renders SomeComponent', async () => {
  ....
  const { container } = render(<SomeComponent />)
  await waitFor(async () => expect(await axe(container)).toHaveNoViolations())
  ....
})
```

## Pre-Commit Hooks

On local environments, every commit will run typechecks, linting and code formatting.
This happens using `husky` and `lint-staged`. See `lint-staged.config.js` for more details.

## Linting, Static Analysis, and Unit Tests

Our tools for these tasks currently include:

- **Typechecking**, static typechecking on all .tsx files using the typescript compiler.
- **ESLint**, an ECMAScript/JavaScript linter and static analysis tool.
- **Prettier**, a file formatter that ensures consistent code style.
- **Jest**, a Javascript testing framework with an accessible API

All four of these run as part of the pre-commit hooks on staged files (and/or their related tests, in Jest's case).

## Functional and Behavioral Tests

This is the "slow" part of the testing suite, Playwright. Where Jest tests the code itself,
Playwright tests that a user can do what they are expected to do in a browser, click buttons, etc.

These tests can be run manually, and they always run in CI. Because of this,
**Playwright expects the full site to be built and served**.
You can do this locally by first running `yarn export` and then `yarn export:serve`.
This will start a webserver with all the generated static pages that Playwright can reach.

Run `yarn test:playwright` to run all tests (including examples) against generated pages.

You can also run Playwright interactively with `yarn test:playwright:interactive` which will load
a browser with a clean UI to monitor and iterate on different test cases.

## Accessibility Testing

This project can be tested for a11y compliance in several ways:

- Individual Jest unit tests using jest-axe (see: `example_tests/06_accessibility_tests/index.test.jsx`).
- Individual Playwright tests using Playwright-axe. (see: `playwright/tests/newsStory.spec.js`).

  - Any individual test can call these commands to check a given page:

    ```js
      test('Should render without a11y accessibility errors', async ({
        page,
        makeAxeBuilder,
      }) => {
        await page.goto('/your-page-url')

        const accessibilityScanResults = await makeAxeBuilder().analyze()

        expect(accessibilityScanResults.violations).toEqual([])
    ```

- A full site scan of all urls known to next-build (generated in the sitemap) using Playwright:

### Full Site Scan

The full scan will run daily in CI using a GitHub Workflow and multiple
runners, but you can also run it locally for testing and debugging purposes.

- Workflow file: `.github/workflows/a11y.yml`
- Yarn command: `yarn test:playwright:a11y`

#### GitHub Workflow

We designed the scan to run against the production va.gov/sitemap.xml to
ensure accessibility issues facing actual users are caught. Testing locally
and in lower environments is great, but to get the most bang for your buck,
running it on the actual output ensures that any fixes carry through to
production.

#### Local Instance

You don't have to build a site locally, but if you want to test against a
fresh next-build instance, you can follow these steps:

1. Run all the steps needed to set up next-build listed in the root README.
   md file.
2. `yarn export` to generate the static pages for the site
3. `yarn build:sitemap` to generate the sitemap for pages from step 1.
4. `yarn export:serve` to host the static pages locally

5. `BASE_URL= yarn test:playwright:a11y` to run the scan. This runs
   `playwright/tests/a11y.spec.js` which loops over the sitemap and tests each page individually using `@axe-core/playwright`.

Commit message:

remove total segments env var from test run command

READMEs/testing.md, after:

# Testing

This document outlines expectations for contributors to this project with regard to testing.

1. **All nontrivial pieces of code should have have unit tests.** (And if the code is trivial, perhaps it needs to be rethought.)

1. **Tests should be written in Jest and use the existing tooling wherever possible.** Please discuss any new dev dependencies with at least one other member of the team before adding them to the project.

1. **Tests should always cover the "Happy Path" or paths in their entirety.** A reasonable number of failure paths, appropriate to the likelihood and severity of errors, should be anticipated as well; silent failures cause very real issues with static site generation.

1. **PRs should aim for 100% coverage of lines, branches, and expressions.** PRs should lower test coverage metrics only in exceptional circumstances. Test coverage requirements are set to a couple percent below the current metrics; these should increase briskly over time.

1. **Unit tests should incorporate accessibility testing whenever appropriate.** Whenever a component is rendered, check it. If there is a rerender, check it again! The `axe` tool is made available in our internal `test-utils` module:

```javascript
import { axe, render, waitFor } from 'test-utils'

test('correctly renders SomeComponent', async () => {
  ....
  const { container } = render(<SomeComponent />)
  await waitFor(async () => expect(await axe(container)).toHaveNoViolations())
  ....
})
```

## Pre-Commit Hooks

On local environments, every commit will run typechecks, linting and code formatting.
This happens using `husky` and `lint-staged`. See `lint-staged.config.js` for more details.

## Linting, Static Analysis, and Unit Tests

Our tools for these tasks currently include:

- **Typechecking**, static typechecking on all .tsx files using the typescript compiler.
- **ESLint**, an ECMAScript/JavaScript linter and static analysis tool.
- **Prettier**, a file formatter that ensures consistent code style.
- **Jest**, a Javascript testing framework with an accessible API

All four of these run as part of the pre-commit hooks on staged files (and/or their related tests, in Jest's case).

## Functional and Behavioral Tests

This is the "slow" part of the testing suite, Playwright. Where Jest tests the code itself,
Playwright tests that a user can do what they are expected to do in a browser, click buttons, etc.

These tests can be run manually, and they always run in CI. Because of this,
**Playwright expects the full site to be built and served**.
You can do this locally by first running `yarn export` and then `yarn export:serve`.
This will start a webserver with all the generated static pages that Playwright can reach.

Run `yarn test:playwright` to run all tests (including examples) against generated pages.

You can also run Playwright interactively with `yarn test:playwright:interactive` which will load
a browser with a clean UI to monitor and iterate on different test cases.

## Accessibility Testing

This project can be tested for a11y compliance in several ways:

- Individual Jest unit tests using jest-axe (see: `example_tests/06_accessibility_tests/index.test.jsx`).
- Individual Playwright tests using Playwright-axe. (see: `playwright/tests/newsStory.spec.js`).

  - Any individual test can call these commands to check a given page:

    ```js
      test('Should render without a11y accessibility errors', async ({
        page,
        makeAxeBuilder,
      }) => {
        await page.goto('/your-page-url')

        const accessibilityScanResults = await makeAxeBuilder().analyze()

        expect(accessibilityScanResults.violations).toEqual([])
    ```

- A full site scan of all urls known to next-build (generated in the sitemap) using Playwright:

### Full Site Scan

The full scan will run daily in CI using a GitHub Workflow and multiple
runners, but you can also run it locally for testing and debugging purposes.

- Workflow file: `.github/workflows/a11y.yml`
- Yarn command: `yarn test:playwright:a11y`

#### GitHub Workflow

We designed the scan to run against the production va.gov/sitemap.xml to
ensure accessibility issues facing actual users are caught. Testing locally
and in lower environments is great, but to get the most bang for your buck,
running it on the actual output ensures that any fixes carry through to
production.

The workflow file `.github/workflows/a11y.yml` has all the contents of the
test run which currently uses 64 runners in a matrix. Each runner passes in
a `SEGMENT_INDEX` that the test uses to split the sitemap into multiple
pages based on the total number of runners used.

Several environmental variables control different parts of the test
configuration.

```yaml
env:
  BASE_URL: 'https://va.gov'
  USE_PROXY: false
  PW_BROWSER: '["chromium", "firefox", "webkit"]'
  PW_WIDTH: '[320, 768, 1024, 1280, 1920]'
  PW_HEIGHT: '[720, 1080, 1440]'
  TOTAL_SEGMENTS: 64
```

#### The Full Scan "Test"

#### Local Testing

You don't have to build a site locally, but if you want to test against a
fresh next-build instance, you can follow these steps:

1. Run all the steps needed to set up next-build listed in the root README.
   md file.
2. `yarn export` to generate the static pages for the site
3. `yarn build:sitemap` to generate the sitemap for pages from step 1.
4. `yarn export:serve` to host the static pages locally

5. `BASE_URL= yarn test:playwright:a11y` to run the scan. This runs
   `playwright/tests/a11y.spec.js` which loops over the sitemap and tests each page individually using `@axe-core/playwright`.
